---
layout: post
title: "Fake Case"
description: "Fake Design's lawsuit against Beijing Taxation Bureau in the Chaoyang District Court on June 20, 2012"
tags: [ aiweiwei, video, multimedia, artist, china, fake, lawsuit ]
series:
  name:   English
  index:  1
slug: fake-case
---

&#x20;<iframe src="http://www.ustream.tv/embed/11274178" width="940" height="555" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="border: 0px none transparent;"> </iframe>

- - -

**Press Release: Fake Design's lawsuit against Beijing Taxation Bureau in the Chaoyang District Court on June 20, 2012**

In November 2011, the Beijing Tax Bureau confirmed that Fake Design Cultural Development Company had evaded taxes and was liable for a penalty of 15.22 million RMB.  The "tax evasion" case was orchestrated by political authorities via the Public Security Bureau and involved numerous transgressions of legal policy and procedure.  This is a classic case of using economic crimes as a means to suppress political freedoms and civil rights in violation of civil rights and judicial procedure.

On April 3, 2011, Ai Weiwei disappeared at the Beijing Capital Airport.  He was detained by authorities for 81 days in an undisclosed location and investigated on suspicion of inciting subversion of state power.  Ai was explicitly informed that he would face retaliation for his political activities.

Three days later, on April 6, Xinhua News Agency announced that Ai was guilty of economic crimes.  That same night, Beijing police raided Fake Design's premises and confiscated all its corporate documents.  Subsequently, Ai Weiwei, his assistant Wen Tao, his driver Zhang Jinsong, company shareholder Liu Zhenggang, and accountant Hu Mingfen were held in secret detention for several months causing their families great distress.  After their release, the Public Security Bureau restricted the ability of the latter four people to associate with Fake Design.

Although Ai was accused of attempting to subvert state power during his detention, on June 22, 2011, Xinhua News Agency announced that Ai was guilty of tax evasion.  He was released on bail subject to one year of house arrest under strict police supervision.

On November 1, 2011, the Beijing Tax Bureau issued a notice requiring Fake Design to pay 15.22 million RMB in penalties for tax evasion.  Ai filed suit for administrative review of his case, secured by a bond of 9 million RMB contributed by close to 30,000 Internet followers.  On March 27, 2012, the Beijing Tax Bureau announced that they were upholding their original decision.  In contravention of taxpayers' basic rights to defend themselves, it neither held a public hearing nor exhibited the original documents upon which its verdict was based.

Ai proceeded to file suit in the Chaoyang District Court against the Beijing Tax Bureau.  It was discovered that the Beijing Tax Bureau had handled the case solely based upon copies of materials provided by the Public Security Bureau. 

On May 7, 2012, the Chaoyang District Court accepted Fake Design's suit against the Beijing Tax Bureau.  On June 7, 2012, Liu Zhenggang and Hu Mingfen, as representatives of Fake Design, submitted a request to the court to retrieve Fake Design's original documents from the Public Security Bureau. Their request was never answered.

On June 15, 2012, the Chaoyang District Court notified Fake Design to appear at a hearing at Court 58 on the 7th floor of the Chaoyang District Court on June 20, 2012, at 2pm.  On June 19, Fake Design attempted to obtain seats at the hearing, which was designated a closed event not open to the public.  The Public Security Bureau repeatedly warned Ai Weiwei not to appear at the hearing.

Fake Design hereby alleges that the Beijing Taxation Bureau breached the law in administering its case:

1. The Public Security Bureau used the charge of "economic crimes" to retaliate against and suppress Ai's exercise of his freedom of expression.  The Public Security Bureau's motivation of and intervention in a "tax case," secret detention of citizens, politically motivated trials, and raid of Fake Design's premises are serious violations of law and do not comply with tax investigation procedures. 

	Fake Design was established in 2000.  Prior to this case, no criminal or administrative penalties were previously levied against the company, contrary to the Public Security Bureau's claim.  Five members of Fake Design including designer Ai Weiwei, assistant Wen Tao, driver Zhang Jinsong, and shareholder Liu Zhenggang, and accountant Hu Mingfen were illegally detained by the PSB.  

	Fake Design seeks administrative reparation for these breaches of statutory procedures.

2. The Beijing Tax Bureau violated rules of evidence and procedure in administering this case.  The Beijing Tax Bureau did not request Fake Design to submit any relevant materials as evidence for the "tax case."  Rather, its decisions were solely based on copies of materials received from the Public Security Bureau that should not be regarded as legally admissible evidence.  

	It did not hold a public hearing and did not fulfill legal requirements for the production of legally required documents to the plaintiff.  Fake Design's original corporate documents seized by the Public Security Bureau have never been returned.  Therefore, Fake Design cannot testify to the integrity and authenticity of the copied documents that the Beijing Tax Bureau used to reach its conclusion in the tax case. 
